At this point I have mentioned default browser styles far too many times without going into too much
detail.
So why don't we change that and see what default browser styles are all about as well as getting our
feet wet with Google dev tools which is an awesome tool to test and examine and to debug our code.
Now first things first I would like to get rid of the content in the stuff success so it can just delete
these seconds here.
We can save it.
We can also head over to indexation email and get rid of both of these Divs.
Now let's write just a simple heading one that would say default browser styles or something like this.
And once we have our having one with some generic text now let us decide what we're gonna do.
Well we would like to see where our default browser styles.
We can do this on a side browser window here on a small one but I'm gonna do it on a bigger browser
window because I think it's gonna be easier for us to see and in order to see default browsers as an
action we would need to head over to our dev tools to the Google dovetails now in order to do that we
would need to either use the right click and notice we would have to come to inspect or we can go the
longer out where we are right clicking or I'm sorry just clicking on this little icon then we're looking
for more tools and within the more tools we have the dev tools and nor is they even give you the shortcut
for that.
So again doesn't really matter which option you choose as long as you get to this window.
Now I know this might look a little bit scary in the beginning.
I trust you and I really feel your pain.
However please don't be scared of this especially right now because we're not gonna be covering all
these tabs or anything like that.
We're not working with JavaScript so we don't need a console.
We're not going to be working with redux or we don't care about.
What we will gonna be working is the elements and you know what.
Let me just zoom in a little bit because I think that way we're going to be able to see everything better.
Okay.
So far so good.
So we have our element.
Now what do you see here in this pain or screen or how are you call it.
What do you see here has the text or has the content.
Well if we're looking correctly we see the doctor so that I already should bring us the bell.
Then we also see the heading One hand unless I'm half asleep right now.
I think this is our heading one not medical check.
I think it is yes.
So we have the heading One and that actually matches that we have in our duck.
So basically what we see or hear are the elements that are going to be in our document.
So everything that we have in a document we also see here on this screen.
Now I can open this up and notice we have the head element obviously we have the Met attacks as well
as we have the link.
So so far so good as well as we have the actual body now within the body is where we have our heading
one.
So far so good.
So if I'm going to click here on this heading one what do you see here on the right hand side.
Well we see that there is going to be syntax that we already have covered it quite a lot of times which
is the assistant next we have the currently braces and then we have to stop.
But what about the stylus display block that doesn't ring a bell.
We didn't write that font size.
Well we know the property but I don't think we included knock.
Well maybe I'm wrong.
Let's head over back to style is this.
Make sure that I did have my coffee.
Know we did not have any of these styles.
No I'd see the clean style sheet.
There's nothing here as well as everything you say so it's not like we added them and maybe it didn't
save them or something like that.
So what's happening here.
Well you see for every browser in or just the display heading one more any kind of Asian email it needs
to have some default browser stuff.
Otherwise think about it.
So I'm gonna write something.
We will then need to have some type of C to display it right.
Otherwise how we're going to displayed on the page.
So we're going gonna write the heading One and then what is just gonna magically appear.
So this is where the default browser styles are coming to play.
Now again we see quite a few of them here.
And one thing about them is that as you're gonna be heading through let's say your dev tools if ever
you're going to notice this user agent style sheet.
That means that that comes from default browser stuff.
Now there's gonna be cases where we're all going to override them just like we did in a previous video
where I used some preset.
So I got rid of some margins that come by default.
Now in most cases rose is gonna use them.
So that's the thing if we're using let's say heading one.
So we're gonna have by default font size.
Ms.
Now unless you override this in your sisters you're just gonna use that you're just gonna assume that
all the heading ones that you're going to have are are gonna have this kind of contact.
So that's all there is to it.
So it comes with some default browser size some of them you might overwrite it some of them we want
some of them you're just can use it like for example again let's say font weight ball unless you override
this for your heading ones then they are just gonna be bold.
Now let's test something out.
I'm gonna head over back to index and shame Schimmel and we're gonna say that you know what.
Not only there's going to be hitting one with different browser styles let's create a hearing tool in
heading to we're gonna say Google Google the chrome let's let's use chrome chrome dev tools something
like this are awesome.
Let's read this over here and heading to but in this case we're going to head over to ELC users and
actually add some styles.
Now what we're gonna add again going be very simple something we have done already before color is gonna
be red.
And let's say font size is gonna be I don't know what we can do maybe 60 pixels something like this
again doesn't really matter what you write as long as you add some type of style.
Again we're gonna head over back to our dev tools.
Notice something interesting.
So I have my heading one and if I would like to check any element as I'm hovering over the element then
already dev tools are telling me some stuff about them.
So from the body let's say chose over here to the width and height.
So there's gonna be some width and height in the pixels as well as we have an option here.
If let's say we click on them then on the right and it's being displayed.
So if I click on them again it shows over here.
If I click on any one as well this is being displayed on the right hand side.
Now it's also nifty about Google dev tools is the fact that I can just select the element so have this
option of just clicking on it on the Lara.
And then as I'm hovering over the document I can just select wherever I want.
Now that's gonna come in handy especially if you have something really nested which is going to happen
later on as we're working with Project.
Please understand that right now we have two elements so that's probably going to be no case in your
scenario.
Whenever you're working with anything that has to do with H name LCROSS.
So again this is going to be very nifty later on for you whenever you can just point to whatever element
you would like and notice it pretty much shows me that there going to be having one or two and I can
just click on it.
And again this is gonna show me on the right hand side what I have.
You notice something interesting and I can you know what I can actually maybe make this a little bit
bigger.
I have the heading to but in this case not only I have the default styles that I'm getting again from
the browser.
I also have our own stuff.
And here we see obviously the styles.
Says now what is style CSX.
Well the last time I checked it was actually our story our CSF stash.
So this tells me where I'm getting these tasks from now.
What's also really really nifty is the fact that we can test it in a browser now be aware though whatever
we're gonna write here is not gonna stay in our actual success meaning the moment we're going to refresh
the page all the changes are gonna go away.
But what we can do in dev tools is we can test something out.
So let's say I don't like the red color I thought I did but in fact I don't know what we can do.
Well I can head over here I can click on it and you know what.
Not red.
Much less red blue I'm sure now this is blue.
Now again the moment I'm gonna refresh the page it's gonna go back to the red because this is what we're
getting from the style screen but we can change this in the browser and that way we can test it out
now again for this kind of scenario two elements quite realistically you're probably not gonna be checking
anything here you're gonna write everything in this process as your project grows bigger hill there's
gonna be cases where you just want to hop over to dev tools quickly check something whether that makes
sense or maybe you're gonna be debugging something you're gonna be checking for these default browsers
now because what's gonna happen is there's going to be cases especially with layout.
Trust me with layout you're gonna have a pain where you're going to be looking for something you're
gonna be like Hey listen I added some margin some padding.
And again these are things we haven't covered yet and we will.
But I added this biting has added in margin what is happening why this is not working and this is where
it's really help.
Again at the moment scary.
Gotcha.
I understand.
No problem but I would strongly encourage you to at least try to start using it in a sense.
Just don't dismiss it and don't say okay.
It looks scary right now.
So I'm not gonna touch it.
I don't ever want to know about them because they will gonna come really handy and as far as the default
browser styles come and go then there's gonna be styles that we will gonna overwrite.
Like I said and there's gonna be styles that we're just gonna use it and we're gonna be fine with.
And that's the basic scenario.